So the next thing we're gonna do,
is talk about something that is common
in a lot of apps, particularly view.
And so
we're gonna talk about event handlers.
And so, when we talk about event handlers
as a brief recap, if we take a look at,
actually, let's go to
our new restaurant form.
This is probably the best
place to take a look at this.
Is that we have this thing down
here when we're creating, and
you'll notice that we're
inlining this emit, right?
And it says, emit new restaurant,
add new restaurant, pass new restaurant.
But again, one of the problems with this
is that it's buried inside of our code.
And so, let's go on first
off by refactoring this, so
we can talk more about what
we're gonna do with this.
So personally, I tried to avoid
inlining the dollar sign emit inside of
the template whenever possible, just
because oftentimes it's a bit of logic
that you wanna be able
to call multiple times.
So what I would typically do then,
is let's go ahead and
swap this over to setup.
We're gonna delete these two,
then we'll define our emits as such.
And then let's just comment
that out real quick.
We'll cast it.
So the first one is an event
called add-new-restaurant,
where we take a type of restaurant
which should be of type restaurant.
Then basically we have the same thing for
the second one, but
this one it's canceled new restaurant, and
actually it doesn't have a payload at all.
And then we just need to
define what's being returned.
Nothing, so we just add void and
there we go.
Now we have that.
And then before we finish up, let's do
this, const new restaurant is a ref,
that is from view.
Wrap all that, and then what's nice
now is that because restaurant
status list has been imported,
I don't need to declare it a second time.
So this is how this ends up shaking
out once we've migrated it.
Okay, so let me go ahead and start by just
committing this to the exercise branch.
So you can see the progression,
factor move new rest form to script setup.
Great, all right.
So what we'll notice here now,
is we have this emit here happening,
but I actually just probably wanna
just call an addRestaurant function.
I think inlining it this way is
the cleanest way to just be like, okay,
there's gonna be a function
that's run on click.
No one has to worry about like, wait,
what's the dollar sign, what's emit?
No, there's a function
called addRestaurant.
Okay, then we'll how
are we gonna define that.
Well, let's go ahead and do that.
So actually I'm gonna add this below.
So const addRestaurant is a function, and
that function when clicked upon will emit,
what will it emit?
Well, we don't have our emits defined, so
we just need to declare it here,
and then we can say emit what?
Let's see, emit, CTRL + Space,
add-new-restaurant, yes,
that's what I want.
I gotta love autocomplete cuz I just
reduced the number of typos I have, and
then newRestaurant.value.
I think that should do it.
Except, whoa, interesting.
Look, it's yelling at us.
Why, because it's saying, wait,
what is this object you're passing me?
It's not really a restaurant.
Well, we can fix that.
We just pass it here and define it there.
And voila,
now you have everything very consistently
typed as we've been learning so far.
And so, now, if we go ahead and
go inside of our app.
Let's go the other way.
So inside of New, and then we'll be like
Benget and the Jets, test.com, Create.
For some reasons the title disappeared,
but we'll figure that out in a second.
I think I know why.
I think I do know why.
Okay, so clearly something is being added,
because, okay, so
actually let me explain
this part because I forgot.
When we emit the restaurant, what's
happening is that the parent component
that it lives on, which is currently
parent page, you'll notice that when we
scroll down, The new restaurant form here,
this is where we're actually calling,
basically we're listening for the event.
So, I'll just multi-line this just to
make this a little bit easier to read.
But it's basically when you
declare a custom event in view,
like add new restaurant,
it's basically saying we can listen to
this thing called add new restaurant.
When this event is triggered,
run this function basically
within the parent component.
So this addRestaurant here is
being triggered right here.
And so, this is where again now
our work that we were doing before
starts coming together, why?
We know that the payload is
supposed to be restaurant, and
that's what's being defined at the emit.
So we have consistency here.
And then we know that, okay,
restaurant.list.value.push, great,
hideForm().
This is starting to come
together really nicely.
Okay, so that looks good, but
we have a slight problem.
So let me first start by,
let's refactor this one real quick to
cancel restaurant, new restaurant.
And then now that we have that,
we'll just copy this real quick and
then we'll just say,
cancelNewRestaurant, emit what?
CTRL+ Space, wait, that's the wrong one.
>> Trying to be smart because you
have the second argument, maybe?
>> I think you're actually right.
Yep, so what was mentioned in the class
here, is that currently it knows that
cancel new restaurant does not have
a parameter, but add-new-restaurant does.
So if we strip this out,
we should see, there it is.
Being a little bit too smart,
in [LAUGH] my opinion.
But that was very nice.
Okay, so now we have this.
Now everything's refactored correctly.
We're good,
I'm gonna do see a red squiggly line, but
we'll deal with that in a second.
Okay, so let's finish up that refactor.